---
date: 2019-05-26
title: Pivoting Techniques
description: Techniques for Pivoting within Environments
categories: LateralMovement

---
It is useful to have the ability to proxy traffic and pivot throughout environments where traffic restrictions are in place. Lateral movement can be done via SMB named pipes.

### Socks Server

Cobalt and Poshc2 have the ability to run a SocksProxy on the compromised end-point. To do this in Poshc2 the SharpSocks tool needs to be compiled for .NET core and then ran on a Linux box with the required libraries. For Cobalt it is as simple as right clicking on the host and navigating to Pivot and choosing Socks Proxy and a port.

### Proxychains

On the attacking host configure proxychains to run on the port specified in whichever socks server is configured. Once this is done, tools such as crackmapexec, Nmap and Impacket can be used.

### socat

In order to access services which require GUI's as an example, socat can be used to redirect the traffic. The following example demonstrates how this is possible to RDP into a host on a network reachable from a compromised host where the Socksserver is running:

The following command is ran from the team server for example, this does not assume redirectors are involed, as such other configurations may be required.

    proxychains socat TCP4-LISTEN:3389,fork TCP4:remote_ip:3389

From the Windows box, RDP to the teamserver and traffic will be pushed from the teamserver through proxychains to the target host.

### SCShell

Interesting approach to lateral movement whereby files do not need to be dropped to disk for instance with cases like PSExec

[https://github.com/Mr-Un1k0d3r/SCShell](https://github.com/Mr-Un1k0d3r/SCShell "https://github.com/Mr-Un1k0d3r/SCShell")

The code above will allow an operator to update the binpath of a service executable, this can be done via the Python port through proxychains and allows for PtH or just using the SCShell c code, .NET port is also available.

A few notes to considered, any code executed by the SC will be done so in SYSTEM context, another point is this tool works using RPC calls, so no SMB packets - might go by network monitoring tools.